chore: add doc for phase1 tx creation (#142)
babylonchain/btc-staker: docs/create-phase1-staking.md

# Creating and Submitting phase-1 Staking Transactions

The phase-1 staking transaction is a
[Bitcoin Staking transaction](https://github.com/babylonchain/babylon/blob/v0.8.5/docs/staking-script.md)
that includes an additional `OP_RETURN` field containing
the staking parameters to enable for easy identification

> and taproot decoding through observing the Bitcoin ledger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and taproot decoding through observing the Bitcoin ledger.

In this document,
we will be exploring how to build the phase-1 staking transaction
using a bitcoind wallet, and later funding, signing, and propagating it
to the BTC network.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/1c24f9d22d48fa3b14b41e667156895130a05827

## Requirements

- [stakercli](../README.md#3-btc-staker-installation)
- [bitcoin-cli](../README.md#21-download-and-extract-bitcoin-binary)
- [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/)

The generation of a phase-1 staking transaction does not require
an active `stakerd` daemon that connects to a Babylon node.
It can be generated in offline mode without any external connections.

> The generation of the phase-1 staking transaction requires the specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It only requires the specification
```

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/d3785fe32b484ce427b607f4db4b9dfb5aef20cd

> of a funding address. Wallet creation and generating an address for it are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of a funding Bitcoin public key. Wallet creation and generating a Bitcoin public key for it are
```

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/d3785fe32b484ce427b607f4db4b9dfb5aef20cd

  listunspent

[
  {
    "txid": "f9eeaa603041f0db55383f7baf6b048b27660eba47aebea435a564df4f87a5ff",
    "vout": 0,
    "address": "bcrt1q29q36vd2449ajaz68mhnh46xcty825lnh6z0xl",
    "label": "",
    "scriptPubKey": "001451411d31aaad4bd9745a3eef3bd746c2c87553f3",
    "amount": 600.00000000,
    "confirmations": 30,
    "spendable": true,
    "solvable": true,
    "desc": "wpkh([4b45934d/0h/0h/0h]020721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de)#kxsmmtvy",
    "parent_descs": [
    ],
    "safe": true
  }
]
```

The BTC staker public key can be derived from the `desc` property.
You can use the `jq` utility to reduce it as follows:

```shell
bitcoin-cli -datadir=1 -rpcwallet=btc-staker listunspent | jq -r '.[0].desc | split("]") | .[-1] | split(")") | .[0] | .[2:]'

0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de
```

In this example the value `0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de`
is the BTC staker public key in hex format.

## Create Raw Transaction

The binary `stakercli` will be used to generate the transaction using
the `transaction create-phase1-staking-transaction` command.

This command has several flag options:

> - `--staker-pk` BTC staker public key in schnorr format as hex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--staker-pk` Schnorr BTC staker public key in hex format.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/e1893b56a83d9857c7d801b29e12a1a90e90ba06

> - `--finality-provider-pk` The finality provider public key in schnorr format as hex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--finality-provider-pk` The finality provider Schnorr BTC public key in hex format.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/e1893b56a83d9857c7d801b29e12a1a90e90ba06

- `--staking-amount` The amount of satoshis to be locked.
- `--staking-time` The amount of BTC blocks to lock for.
- `--magic-bytes` Magic bytes in op_return output in hex.

> - `--covenant-committee-pks` BTC public keys of the covenant committee.

Reviewer: Let's point that for each pk, the flag should be used again.

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/1c24f9d22d48fa3b14b41e667156895130a05827

- `--covenant-quorum` Required quorum of covenant members to unbond.
- `--network` Specifies the BTC network this transaction will be sent, any of
`[mainnet, testnet3, regtest, simnet, signet]`.

For example to generate one staking transaction that locks `0.05` BTC for one
year, use `--staking-amount=5000000` and `--staking-time=52560`.

```shell
stakercli transaction create-phase1-staking-transaction \
  --staker-pk 0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de
  --staking-amount 5000000 --staking-time 52560 \
  --magic-bytes <bbn_4byte_identifier> \
  --finality-provider-pk <fp_pk_chosen> \

>   --covenant-quorum <bbn_quorum> --covenant-committee-pks <covenant_pk> \

Reviewer: Let's add some covenant-committee examples as it is a bit counter-intuitive on how to provide the different keys.

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/1c24f9d22d48fa3b14b41e667156895130a05827

that adds inputs to a transaction until it has enough value to satisfy the transaction.

```shell
bitcoin-cli -testnet3 \
  -rpcuser=<your_rpc_username> \
  -rpcpassword=<your_rpc_password> \
  -rpcport=38332 \
  -rpcwallet=btc-staker \
  fundrawtransaction 020000000002404b4c00000000002251207c2649dc890238fada228d52a4c25fcef82e1cf3d7f53895ca0fcfb15dd142bb0000000000000000496a470102030400b91ea4619bc7b3f93e5015976f52f666ae4eb5c98018a6c8e41424905fa8591fa89e7caf57360bc8b791df72abc3fb6d2ddc0e06e171c9f17c4ea1299e677565cd5000000000

{
  "hex": "02000000015bd115941b71ace5ed9d5a0c239f9a074b32655bb8557497500edf92189a2bf20200000000fdffffff039095a7f70d0000001600142465c9555dba91e3e9a489c0b5ce706046ae8f34404b4c00000000002251207c2649dc890238fada228d52a4c25fcef82e1cf3d7f53895ca0fcfb15dd142bb0000000000000000496a470102030400b91ea4619bc7b3f93e5015976f52f666ae4eb5c98018a6c8e41424905fa8591fa89e7caf57360bc8b791df72abc3fb6d2ddc0e06e171c9f17c4ea1299e677565cd5000000000",
  "fee": 0.00235000,
  "changepos": 0
}
```

> You might need to unlock the wallet with [`bitcoin-cli walletpassphrase`](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/walletpassphrase)

## Sign Transaction

> To submit the transaction onchain to the BTC network it needs to be signed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the transaction to be submitted to the BTC network it first needs to be signed.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/6b83a08ecf220d9f44eb2755705801a5bc4ba244

> For signing the transaction use the following command
> [`bitcoin-cli signrawtransactionwithwallet`](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/signrawtransactionwithwallet)
> which signs the raw funded transaction and outputs it as hex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can sign the raw funded transaction and output the signed format as hex
using the 
[`bitcoin-cli signrawtransactionwithwallet`](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/signrawtransactionwithwallet)
command.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/6b83a08ecf220d9f44eb2755705801a5bc4ba244

The signed transaction can be submited onchain to BTC to be included in the blocks.
You can submit a transaction through the
[bitcoin-cli sendrawtransaction](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/sendrawtransaction)
that propagates the signed transaction to other nodes.

```shell
bitcoin-cli -testnet3 \
  -rpcuser=<your_rpc_username> \
  -rpcpassword=<your_rpc_password> \
  -rpcport=38332 \
  sendrawtransaction 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

f22b9a1892df0e50977455b85b65324b079a9f230c5a9dede5ac711b9415d15b
```

It outputs the transaction hash. Wait a few minutes and make sure that

> the transaction is included in the blockchain by using the explorer or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the transaction is included in the blockchain by using a Bitcoin explorer or
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/3151be975a472b9fd32c6372d451b629103c552f

# Phase1 Staking Transaction

> Creates a phase 1 staking transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The phase-1 staking transaction is a
[Bitcoin Staking transaction](https://github.com/babylonchain/babylon/blob/v0.8.5/docs/staking-script.md)
that includes an additional `OP_RETURN` field containing
the staking parameters to enable for easy identification
and taproot decoding through observing the Bitcoin ledger.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/6d71dd0b79e0228db0e58ad0edfda49721986ca5

## Requirements

- [stakercli](../README.md#3-btc-staker-installation)
- [bitcoin-cli](../README.md#21-download-and-extract-bitcoin-binary)
- [jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/)

> Phase 1 staking transaction does not connects to `staked` daemon and neither to `babylon` node. Only needs bitcoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generation of a phase-1 staking transaction does not require
an active `stakerd` daemon that connects to a Babylon node.
It can be generated in offline mode without any external connections.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/6d71dd0b79e0228db0e58ad0edfda49721986ca5

To create the transaction to stake and lock bitcoin, one funded wallet is needed,
follow [steps 2 to 2.4](../README.md#2-setting-up-a-bitcoin-node) to create one

> **legacy** wallet and generate a valid btc address.

Reviewer: The generation of the phase-1 staking transaction requires
the specification of a funding address.
Wallet creation and generating an address for it are covered
by [this guide (steps 2 to 2.4)](../README.md#2-setting-up-a-bitcoin-node).

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/55adfba0e569110025a2a2e8b89e23954109766e

> ## Generate public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identifying the Staker Public Key
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/9a21797b716befdf4dc8c1b47fb41d9ea0b52fee

> With one funded wallet is possible to generate the BTC staker public key. To do
> that, run [`bitcoin-cli listunspent`](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/listunspent).
> The output should be one slice with a list of unspent transaction outputs.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Bitcoin staking transaction requires the specification
of the staker public key, which corresponds to the public key
of the wallet that is funding the staking transaction.

Once you setup your wallet and an address for it,
you can extract the public key corresponding to it through the
[`bitcoin-cli listunspent`](https://chainquery.com/bitcoin-cli/listunspent).
The output should be one slice with a list of unspent transaction outputs:
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/9a21797b716befdf4dc8c1b47fb41d9ea0b52fee

```shell
bitcoin-cli -signet \
  -rpcuser=<your_rpc_username> \
  -rpcpassword=<your_rpc_password> \
  -rpcport=38332 \
  -rpcwallet=btc-staker \
  listunspent

[
  {
    "txid": "f9eeaa603041f0db55383f7baf6b048b27660eba47aebea435a564df4f87a5ff",
    "vout": 0,
    "address": "bcrt1q29q36vd2449ajaz68mhnh46xcty825lnh6z0xl",
    "label": "",
    "scriptPubKey": "001451411d31aaad4bd9745a3eef3bd746c2c87553f3",
    "amount": 600.00000000,
    "confirmations": 30,
    "spendable": true,
    "solvable": true,
    "desc": "wpkh([4b45934d/0h/0h/0h]020721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de)#kxsmmtvy",
    "parent_descs": [
    ],
    "safe": true
  }
]
```

The BTC staker public key can be derived from the `desc` property by using jq to

> reduce it by using the following command:

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/9a21797b716befdf4dc8c1b47fb41d9ea0b52fee

```shell
bitcoin-cli -datadir=1 -rpcwallet=btc-staker listunspent | jq -r '.[0].desc | split("]") | .[-1] | split(")") | .[0] | .[2:]'

0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de
```

In this example the value `0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de`
is the BTC staker public key in hex format.

## Create Raw Transaction

The binary `stakercli` will be used to generate the transaction using the command

> of `transaction create-phase1-staking-transaction`.

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/d1688c2bc8e8b13f9d6b92bd45b57d63af161397

This command has several flag options:

- `--staker-pk` BTC staker public key in schnorr format as hex.
- `--finality-provider-pk` The finality provider public key in schnorr format as hex.
- `--staking-amount` The amount of satoshis to be locked.
- `--staking-time` The amount of BTC blocks to lock for.
- `--magic-bytes` Magic bytes in op_return output in hex.
- `--covenant-committee-pks` BTC public keys of the covenant committee.
- `--covenant-quorum` Required quorum of covenant members to unbond.
- `--network` Specifies the BTC network this transaction will be sent, any of
`[mainnet, testnet3, regtest, simnet, signet]`.

> By example to generate one staking transaction of 0.05 BTC and locked for one year,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example to generate one staking transaction that locks `0.05` BTC for one year,
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/d1688c2bc8e8b13f9d6b92bd45b57d63af161397

> use `--staking-amount` as `5000000` and `--staking-time` as `52560`.

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/d1688c2bc8e8b13f9d6b92bd45b57d63af161397

```shell
stakercli transaction create-phase1-staking-transaction \
  --staker-pk 0721ef511b0faee2a487a346fdb96425d9dd7fa79210adbe7b47f0bcdc7e29de
  --staking-amount 5000000 --staking-time 52560 \
  --magic-bytes <bbn_4byte_identifier> \
  --finality-provider-pk <fp_pk_chosen> \
  --covenant-quorum <bbn_quorum> --covenant-committee-pks <covenant_pk> \
  --network signet

{
  "staking_tx_hex": "020000000002404b4c00000000002251207c2649dc890238fada228d52a4c25fcef82e1cf3d7f53895ca0fcfb15dd142bb0000000000000000496a470102030400b91ea4619bc7b3f93e5015976f52f666ae4eb5c98018a6c8e41424905fa8591fa89e7caf57360bc8b791df72abc3fb6d2ddc0e06e171c9f17c4ea1299e677565cd5000000000"
}

> ```

Author: Agree, whoever is going to use the `create-phase1-staking-transaction` command wants to submit this information, I will move the instructions of signing and propagate to the network

> ```

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/btc-staker/pull/142/commits/da3fe353f898db950bddad03bfc84e7b56950a17
